 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
59 
 
2.23 
pertinent to the automated procedure: an expression used primarily with reference to DSC 
messages to indicate that the message has something to do with the procedure and is therefore 
“handled” by the procedure. A DSC message is pertinent to an automated procedure if the set of 
information characters in the DSC message has the correct values. 
2.24 
standby: the term used to indicate that the equipment is not handling an automated 
procedure, either active or on hold, but is able to receive DSC calls. 
2.25 
two-tone alarm: an alarm consisting of a repetition of the 2 200 Hz tone for 250 ms followed 
by a 1 300 Hz tone for 250 ms. This alarm occurs at the initiation of the received distress DSC 
automated procedure. The characteristics of this alarm should not be able to be altered. 
2.26 
urgency alarm: an alarm consisting of a repetition of the 2 200 Hz tone for 250 ms followed 
by 250 ms period of silence. This alarm occurs at the initiation of the received non-distress DSC 
automated procedure when the category of the initiating DSC message is “urgency”. The 
characteristics of this alarm should not be able to be altered. 
2.27 
watch receiver: this unit is the separate receiver in DSC radios that continuously monitors 
the DSC distress frequencies on MF/HF, 2 187.5 kHz on MF, and channel 70 on VHF. On MF/HF it 
is sometimes referred to as the scanning receiver. 
3 
Tasks of automated procedures 
3.1 
Tasks common to all automated procedures handling digital selective calling calls 
3.1.1 
Handling alarms or audible indications 
The sounding of any DSC alarm or audible indication (see § 2.3) should simultaneously display the 
reason for the alarm as well as for the audible indication and the means to silence it. 
Alarms should sound appropriate to the automated procedure when a received category of DSC call 
either initiates or acknowledges the automated procedure with the two-tone alarm and respective DSC 
acknowledgement alarm being reserved for the initiation of the received distress procedure. The DSC 
urgency alarm and urgency acknowledgement alarm sound being reserved for the initiation of the 
received non-distress procedure when the category of call of the initiating DSC message is “urgency” 
and respectively for “urgency acknowledgement”. 
For each incident, only the first occurrence of a respective received DSC call should sound the alarms. 
All received DSC calls that do not sound an alarm as specified in § 3.1.1 should sound an audible 
indication (see § 2.3) to inform the operator of the reception. 
3.1.2 
Displaying stages of the automated procedure 
The automated procedure should display the stages and/or activity in order to indicate the progress of 
the procedure. 
3.1.3 
Tuning the radio 
Tuning of the general receiver and transmitter for reception or transmission of required 
acknowledgments, repeat transmissions, distress alert relays, or subsequent communications should 
be handled automatically. 
Any automated tuning action that could potentially disrupt ongoing subsequent communications 
should provide the operator with at least a 10 s warning. The operator should then be provided with 
the opportunity to pause the action. In the absence of operator intervention the automated action 
should proceed. 
