 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
61 
 
3.1.9 
Automated termination 
Automated procedures should have an automated termination timer whose factory default values can 
be changed by the operator. It should be possible to disable this timer. Unacknowledged sending 
distress automated procedures should not have a termination timer, however after acknowledgement 
a termination timer is optional. 
At least 10 s prior to automatic termination, a warning with a discrete audible alarm should be 
displayed giving the operator the opportunity to stop the termination. 
3.2 
Tasks specific to certain automated procedures 
3.2.1 
Tasks of automated procedures initiated by receiving non-distress digital selective 
calling messages 
3.2.1.1 
Display of elapsed time 
The elapsed time since receiving the initiating DSC call should be displayed or after any requested 
acknowledgment has been sent, the elapsed time since sending the acknowledgement should be 
displayed. Sending repeat acknowledgments should not affect the time display. 
3.2.1.2 
Handling acknowledgments 
If the equipment has been set up to automatically acknowledge individually addressed polling, 
position request, or test DSC calls, no audible indication (see § 2.3) should sound and the automated 
procedure should self-terminate. 
Acknowledgement options should only be made available to the operator when the received DSC call 
requests an acknowledgement. 
When acknowledgments are requested, the automated procedure should provide the operator with up 
to three possible acknowledgement options based upon the received DSC call as follows: 
Able to comply: This option should be provided if the frequencies and mode of subsequent 
communication are provided by the received DSC call and the equipment is capable of handling the 
requested communications, or if the received DSC call is a polling, position request, or test that has 
not been automatically acknowledged.  
Able to comply with a mode or frequency change: This option should be provided if the received 
DSC call requests subsequent communications.  
Unable to comply: This option should be provided if the received DSC call contains subsequent 
communications or is a position request. The sending of this acknowledgement indicates a refusal 
and should terminate the automated procedure. 
The automated procedure should automatically compose the acknowledgement messages based 
upon the received DSC call as shown in Fig. A1-2 and Fig. A1-3. 
“Able to comply” acknowledgments should be composed in entirety by the automated procedure. 
“Able to comply with a mode or frequency change” acknowledgements should only require the 
entry/selection of a new mode and/or frequency. 
“Unable to comply” acknowledgments to DSC calls containing subsequent communications should 
only require the entry/selection of one of the ten telecommand 2 “reason” symbols specified in 
Table A1-3. 
“Unable to comply” acknowledgments to position requests if implemented should only require a 
single action by the operator to send. The procedure should automatically place the “no information 
symbol” in the position and time messages of the acknowledgement. 
