56 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
• 
on MF the default band of the DSC transmission should be on the 2 MHz band; 
• 
on HF the default band of the DSC transmission should be on the 8 MHz band; 
– 
all other parameters, for example, the self- ID, the distress alert relay telecommand 1 
parameter, the category (distress), and end of sequence character should be automatically 
entered by the equipment; 
– 
the format, MMSI of the vessel in distress, the nature of distress, the position and time of 
position should not be “remembered” when the DROBOSE composition option is selected at 
a later time but should be reset to the defaults. 
5.4 
Other items 
If the called station is a ship station or a group of ship stations the equipment should request input of 
a channel number (frequency in case of MF). The equipment should assist the operator by suggesting 
a suitable inter-ship channel; on VHF for example channel 6. 
Automated HF subsequent communication channel selection for non-distress DSC messages. There 
is a simplex set and duplex set (contains the distress channels) for HF for both voice (3 000 Hz) and 
data (500 Hz) communication modes. Selection of the appropriate channel from these sets should 
follow the following steps: 
– 
The band of the communication channel should be the band of the DSC call. 
– 
The telecommand 1 parameter determines the choice of voice or data channels. 
– 
DSC calls directed to a coast station (i.e. MMSI commencing 00) should let the coast station 
decide. 
– 
All other DSC calls should select a channel from the simplex frequencies. 
Use of the distress channels should be avoided and for routine communications use of the distress 
channels should not be allowed. 
 
Annex 4 
 
Automated procedures for simplified operation in shipborne equipment 
1 
General 
The equipment software should allow the operator to only compose the types of DSC calls which are 
specified in Tables A1-4.1 to A1-4.11. These tables indicate which DSC calls are applicable for each 
class of DSC equipment.  
Automated procedures are the incorporation of ITU-R recommended DSC operational procedures 
into equipment software. 
The equipment should initiate (start) one of five automated procedures whenever the equipment 
becomes engaged in a new communication event. Four of these automated procedures handle 
events initiated by sent and received DSC calls and the fifth automated procedure handles 
radiotelephony established by non-DSC means. One of these five automated procedures is 
initiated by: 
a) 
sending a distress alert, 
b) 
receiving a DSC message containing distress information, 
