 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
57 
 
c) 
sending an individually addressed distress alert relay containing distress information, 
d) 
sending distress alert relay on behalf of someone else, 
e) 
sending a DSC message containing no distress information, 
f) 
receiving a DSC message containing no distress information, 
g) 
engaging in traffic initiated by non-DSC means. 
NOTE – ACS sending and receiving are included in e) and f). 
Once initiated by any of the events listed in a)-g), the automated procedure should handle all the tasks 
required to satisfy the objectives of the initiating event. These tasks should include the handling of 
any subsequent DSC messages that may be pertinent (relevant) to the objectives of the automated 
procedure and appropriately updating the automated procedure, providing the operator with any 
possible options, and keeping the operator informed of the progress until either the operator 
terminates the automated procedure or conditions warrant that the automated procedure self 
terminates. Automated procedures should be able to be run in parallel. Whereas all DSC automated 
procedures continuously monitor the watch receiver only one active automated procedure has control 
of the transmitter and general receiver. The reception of any DSC message not pertinent to an 
automated procedure should not disrupt that procedure but should be appropriately allocated to the 
appropriate ongoing automated procedure or initiate a new automated procedure. 
2 
Definitions 
2.1 
acknowledged: when used to describe an automated procedure it indicates that the objective 
of the initial DSC call has been achieved. 
2.2  
active: the term used to describe an automated procedure which has control of the general 
receiver and transmitter and is thus able to engage in subsequent communications and receive DSC 
calls on both the watch receiver and general receiver. 
2.3 
audible indication: the term used to describe a brief self-terminating sound which is repeated 
once every 30 seconds until confirmation or self-terminating after 5 minutes indicating the reception 
of a DSC call of a category other than distress or urgency or a repetition of a call of categories distress 
or urgency already received. 
2.4 
automated procedure: the term given to describe the set of actions necessary to complete 
the objective of an initiating DSC call or non-DSC communication event. Four DSC automated 
procedures are designed to process these. They are the receiving of distress DSC calls, the receiving 
of non-distress DSC calls, the sending of distress DSC alert attempts and the sending of non-distress 
DSC calls. In addition a fifth procedure is designed to handle non-DSC communication events. 
These automated procedures are called: 
– 
Received distress automated procedure 
– 
Sending distress automated procedure 
– 
Received non-distress automated procedure 
– 
Sending non-distress automated procedure 
– 
Communications automated procedure. 
2.5 
critical errors: a set of information characters obtained from one or more received DSC calls 
is considered to have critical errors if the automated procedure needs information characters from that 
set in order to proceed or perform any task, but the required information characters are in error 
(for example, an acknowledgement cannot be composed to an individual DSC call that has errors in 
the sender’s MMSI). 
