64 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
3.2.4 
Tasks of automated procedures initiated by sending a distress alert attempt 
3.2.4.1 
Display of elapsed time 
The time remaining to the sending of the next distress alert attempt should be displayed prior to 
acknowledgment by DSC. 
The elapsed time since acknowledgement should be displayed after acknowledgment by DSC. 
Receiving repeat acknowledgments should not affect the time display. 
3.2.4.2 
Resending of the distress alert attempt 
The unacknowledged distress alert attempt should be automatically resent after a 3.5 to 4.5 min wait. 
The automatic resending of the distress alert attempt should automatically terminate after 
acknowledgement by DSC. 
Resent distress alert attempts should contain updated position and time of position information. 
3.2.4.3 
Determining operator options 
The option to manually resend the distress alert attempt at any time should remain available until the 
distress alert has been acknowledged by DSC. 
On HF the operator should have the option to change the frequencies of the distress alert attempt and 
the option to select between the single frequency or multi-frequency method. 
The option to pause the countdown to the next distress alert attempt should be available prior to 
acknowledgement by DSC. 
The option to cancel the distress alert should be available prior to acknowledgement by DSC. 
The option to terminate the procedure should only be available after acknowledgment by DSC. 
3.2.4.4 
The distress alert self-cancel procedure 
The self-cancel procedure consists of the self-cancel operation on all bands utilized by the distress 
alert attempts (on VHF and MF there is only one cancel operation whereas on MF/HF there may be 
up to six). The self-cancel operation consists of a DSC cancel message (a self-addressed distress alert 
acknowledgement) followed by a voice cancel on the corresponding frequency of subsequent 
communication. The phrase “voice cancel” refers to the part of the cancel done over the subsequent 
communication frequencies whether it is by radiotelephony or on MF and MF/HF by data. 
Upon selection of the cancel option the sending distress automated procedure should provide an 
explanation of the self-cancel procedure to the operator and provide the option to either continue or 
return and not do the cancel. 
If the operator selects to proceed with the self-cancel procedure the sending distress automated 
procedure should pause the countdown to the next automated sending of the distress alert attempt and 
wait (if necessary) until any alert within an attempt is transmitted to completion before allowing the 
operator to initiate the first self-cancel operation. 
The operator options during the self-cancel procedure should be to terminate the cancel procedure 
and to start the self-cancel operation.  
If the self-cancel procedure is terminated before the first self-cancel operation is started, the sending 
distress automated procedure should resume from where it left off. However, once the self-cancel 
operation is started, the option to terminate the cancel procedure should not be available until the 
self-cancel procedure is completed. 
The status of the self-cancel procedure should be displayed. 
