52 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
Class E equipment is intended to provide minimum facilities for MF and/or HF DSC distress, urgency 
and safety as well as routine calling and reception, not necessarily in full accordance with 
IMO GMDSS carriage requirements for MF/HF installations. 
Class H handheld equipment is intended to provide minimum facilities for VHF DSC distress, 
urgency and safety as well as routine calling and reception, not necessarily in full accordance with 
IMO GMDSS carriage requirements for VHF installations. 
Class M MOB device3 is intended to activate a Distress alarm on a predefined ship or for a predefined 
group of ships (closed loop) or all ships (open loop) in the vicinity. This equipment does not provide 
any voice capability and is not an IMO GMDSS carriage requirement. 
Class A equipment may support the optional automatic service in accordance with Recommendations 
ITU-R M.689, ITU-R M.1082 and Tables A1-4.10.1 and A1-4.10.2 and are encouraged to do so. 
Class D and Class E equipment may also support the optional automatic service. 
NOTE 1 – Class C, F and G equipment as defined in earlier versions of this Recommendation 
(e.g. Recommendations ITU-R M.493-5 (Geneva, 1992) and ITU-R M.493-7 (Geneva, 1995)) did not provide 
vital minimum DSC functions (transmitting and receiving distress alerts) and have therefore been withdrawn. 
NOTE 2 – Class D Handheld as defined in Recommendation ITU-R M.493-13 (Geneva, 2009) has been 
redefined as new VHF Handheld Class H with a clear set of functionalities to be provided.  
NOTE 3 – Class B has been deleted because there is no demand in the market to support such equipment and 
the scope of application was requested by the administrations in preparation of Recommendation 
ITU-R M.493-15. 
 
 
Annex 3 
 
User interface for simplified operation of shipborne equipment 
1 
General 
The user interface for operation of the DSC equipment should be so designed that it will be easy for 
the operator onboard the ship to operate the equipment and to compose and initiate the types of DSC 
calls provided for by the equipment. The equipment software should allow the operator to only 
compose the types of DSC calls which are specified in Tables A1-4.1 to A1-4.11. These Tables 
indicate which DSC messages are applicable for each class of DSC equipment, messages defined 
in Tables A1-4.10.1 (auto VHF (optional)) and A1-4.10.2 (auto MF/HF (optional)) should not be 
selectable from the top level menu.  
2 
Definitions 
2.1 
Automated procedure: the term given to describe the set of actions necessary to complete 
the objective of an initiating DSC calls or non-DSC communication event. Five DSC automated 
procedures are designed to process these.  
 
3 Class M means a MOB device using VHF digital selective calling for alerting and AIS for locating are 
AMRD Group A in accordance with Recommendation ITU-R M.2135. 
