16 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
– 
in ACS call sequence, if the first telecommand is a request, the second telecommand signal 
should be symbol No. 120 to 125 in accordance with number of remaining ACS sequential 
transmission (see Table A1-4.9.2). 
8.3.2 
Message 2 
Message 2 may contain two “channel or frequency message” elements, each of which basically 
consists of three characters, “character 1”, “character 2” and “character 3”, indicating the proposed 
working frequency (in the F1B/J2B mode the assigned frequency should be used) in multiples of 
100 Hz or the channel number (coded in accordance with Table A1-5) or the ship’s position. The first 
frequency element (the Rx field) in the call indicates the called station receive frequency and the 
second frequency element (the Tx field) indicates the called station transmit frequency. In 
acknowledgements the Rx and Tx fields indicate the receive and transmit frequency of the 
acknowledging station respectively (see also Fig. A1-2 and Note 1). 
NOTE 1 – If only one channel or frequency message element is used, this indicates the called station receive 
channel or frequency or a two-frequency (paired) channel. A second channel or frequency message element 
may be used to designate the called station transmit channel or frequency. If the calling station indicates only 
the called station receive frequency (for broadcast mode transmissions) then the symbol No. 126 repeated three 
times (see Note 2) should be transmitted instead of the called station transmit channel or frequency message 
element. If no “channel or frequency message” elements are used, the symbol No. 126 is transmitted six times. 
For calls using the automatic VHF service (see Table A1-4.10.1) then only one “channel or frequency 
message” element is transmitted which indicates the paired channel number. In the absence of this element the 
symbol No. 126 should be transmitted three times. 
NOTE 2 – In the F1B/J2B mode (FEC or ARQ), if using seven-digit frequency as the working frequency, 
Message 2 may contain two frequency message elements as mentioned above, but each of which consists of 
four characters, “character 0”, “character 1”, “character 2” and “character 3” in multiples of 10 Hz (coded in 
accordance with Table A1-5). Additionally if the calling station indicates only the called station receive 
frequency of seven-digit (for broadcast mode transmissions) then the symbol No. 126 repeated four times 
should be transmitted instead of the called station transmit frequency message element. 
8.3.2.1 
Frequency information 
The frequency (in the F1B/J2B mode the assigned frequency should be used) in multiples of 100 Hz 
or 10 Hz (see Note 2 above) may only be indicated as such when the frequency is below 30 MHz. 
The three characters provide for the required six decimal digits. Character 1 represents the units (U) 
and tens (T) of 100 Hz, character 2 the hundreds (H) and thousands (M) and character 3 the tens of 
thousands (TM) and hundreds of thousands (HM) of 100 Hz. For MF/HF DSC, use frequency 
selection mode, vice channel selection mode, to ensure international interoperability. Also, when 
using seven-digit frequencies, the four characters provide for the required seven decimal digits. 
Character 0 represents the units (U1) and tens (T1) of 10 Hz, character 1 the units (U) and tens (T) of 
1 kHz, character 2 the hundreds (H) and thousands (M) and character 3 the tens of thousands (TM) 
of 1 kHz. However note that this four-characters information is only for use of seven-digit frequencies 
in the F1B/J2B, i.e. it does not affect the messages for the J3E TP mode and for the F1B/J2B mode 
using six-digit frequencies to ensure interoperability. 
8.3.2.2 
Channel information 
8.3.2.2.1 HF and MF channels 
If the HM digit is 3, this indicates that the number represented by the digits TM, M, H, T, U, T1 and 
U1 is the HF/MF working channel number (either single frequency or two frequency channels). This 
mode should only be used for decoding received calls, to ensure interoperability with older 
equipment. 
