12 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
maritime identity as defined in Recommendation ITU-R M.585. The sequence consists of characters 
coded in accordance with Table A1-2 (see Note 1). 
NOTE 1 – According to Recommendation ITU-R M.585 and RR Article 19, maritime mobile service 
identities are formed of a series of nine digits, consisting of three digits of the maritime identification digits 
(MID) and six more digits. 
These identities are included in the address and self-identification parts of the call sequence and are transmitted 
as five characters C5C4C3C2C1, comprising the ten digits of: 
 
 
 
(X1, X2) (X3, X4) (X5, X6) (X7, X8) and (X9, X10) 
 
respectively, whereas digit X10 is always the digit 0 unless the equipment is also designed in accordance with 
Recommendation ITU-R M.1080. 
Example: 
MID X4 X5 X6 X7 X8 X9 being the ship station identity is transmitted by the DSC equipment as: 
 
 
 
(M, I) (D, X4) (X5, X6) (X7, X8) (X9, 0) 
 
5.3 
For a selective call directed to a group of ships in a particular geographic area a numerical 
geographic coordinates address consisting of ten digits (i.e. 5 characters), is constructed as follows 
(see Fig. A1-6 and Note 1): 
NOTE 1 – In order to comply with commonly accepted practice, the order of entry and read-out should be: 
first latitude and then longitude. 
1 
the designated geographic area will be a rectangle in Mercator projection; 
2 
the upper left-hand (i.e. North-West) corner of the rectangle is the reference point for the 
area; 
3 
the first digit indicates the azimuth sector in which the reference point is located, as follows: 
– 
quadrant NE is indicated by the digit “0”, 
– 
quadrant NW is indicated by the digit “1”, 
– 
quadrant SE is indicated by the digit “2”, 
– 
quadrant SW is indicated by the digit “3”; 
4 
the second and third digits indicate the latitude of the reference point in tens and units of 
degrees; 
5 
the fourth, fifth and sixth digits indicate the longitude of the reference point in hundreds, tens 
and units of degrees; 
6 
the seventh and eighth digits indicate the vertical (i.e. North-to-South) side of the rectangle, 
, in tens and units of degrees; 
7 
the ninth and tenth digits indicate the horizontal (i.e. West-to-East) side of the rectangle, , 
in tens and units of degrees. 
6 
Category of call 
The “category of call” information is coded as shown in Table A1-3 and defines the degree of priority 
of the call sequence. 
6.1 
For a “distress” alert the priority is defined by the format specifier and no category of call 
information is included in the call sequence. 
