54 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
3.2.1 
Distress function for composing distress alert attempts other than the default distress alert 
attempt where the operator is able to: 
– 
select the nature of distress (the factory default should be undesignated distress); 
– 
on MF and HF the communication mode (should be telephone); 
– 
on MF and HF select the method and frequencies of transmission (the factory default should 
be the multi-frequency method on all six bands); 
– 
check the content of the position and time of position information and to manually enter this 
information if not correct; 
prior to initiating the sending of the distress alert attempt with the dedicated distress button. 
3.2.2 
Call function for composing non-distress DSC calls. 
3.2.3 
Distress alert relay on behalf of someone else function for composing and relaying the 
occurrence of a distress event obtained by non-DSC means. 
3.2.4 
Cancel/esc/exit/or equivalent for returning to a previous menu level from any state of the 
equipment. 
3.2.5 
Enter/accept/next/touch/press or equivalent for 
accepting a menu item; or 
going to the next step. 
4 
Display of messages in plain language 
The headings and content of messages should be shown in plain language, for example:  
– 
“radiotelephone” instead of J3E; 
– 
“busy” instead of “telecommand 2: 102”. 
5 
Transmission of digital selective calling messages 
5.1 
Digital selective calling call composition features 
The facilities for choosing and composing DSC calls should be so arranged that it is possible for the 
operator quickly and precisely to: 
compose the content of the DSC call; 
review and correct, if needed, the content before transmitting the DSC call. 
5.2 
Operational guidance to the operator 
The operator should only be able to compose the types of DSC calls which are specified in 
Tables A1-4.1 through A1-4.11 as indicated for each class of equipment.  
The equipment should automatically propose the next step for composing the DSC call, for example, 
when pressing the enter/accept/next/touch/press button or equivalent, if not visible from the context 
or on the display. 
5.3 
Defaults 
Where options for the items in the DSC call exist (see Annex 1, Tables A1-4.1 to A1-4.11), the factory 
default values should be as follows: 
