60 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
3.1.4 
Displaying operator options 
Options should only be provided at those times the option is appropriate. 
3.1.5 
Handling digital selective calling calls not pertinent to the active procedure 
The received DSC call is either allocated to the correct automated procedure running in 
the background on hold or initiates a new automated procedure on hold.  
3.1.6 
Displaying warnings 
Warnings should be displayed when the operator attempts to do anything that does not follow 
the guidelines given by ITU and IMO. The operator should have the option to go back to the stage of 
the automated procedure where the action was taken that caused the warning. 
3.1.7 
Handling digital selective calling calls containing errors  
A DSC call with errors is problematic to an automated procedure if the set of information characters 
in the DSC call is identical as defined in the “definitions” section to the set of information characters 
normally used to determine the usage and correct them as appropriate. 
Automated procedures initiated by DSC calls with critical errors should sound the same alarm or 
audible indication (see §2.3) they would sound if the DSC call were received error free but the alarm 
should self-terminate.  
Automated procedures are encouraged to utilize subsequent DSC calls pertinent to the automated 
procedure to reduce the number of receive errors in the set of information characters that are important 
to the automated procedure. In no case should the reception of subsequent DSC calls increase the 
number of errors in the set of information characters important to the automated procedure. 
No automated procedure should allow the transmission of further DSC calls with errors. 
If critical errors prevent an automated procedure from setting up an operator option or performing 
any automated action, that option should be disabled or that action not performed. 
Automated procedures should not be considered acknowledged until all the critical errors in the set 
of acknowledgement information characters have been received correctly or corrected by repeat 
reception. 
Information that is normally displayed that contains errors should be displayed to the full extent 
possible; for example, digits in the MMSI or position information that are received correctly should 
be displayed in their correct positions and those that are not should be indicated by some special error 
symbol. 
3.1.8 
Transmission of digital selective calling messages 
Transmission of DSC calls should use a prioritized wait scheme. If the channel is not free, and the 
DSC call is a distress alert, the alert should be transmitted as soon as the channel becomes free or 
after 10 s on MF or HF or 1 s on VHF, whichever occurs first. For all other DSC calls, the automated 
procedure should wait for the channel to become free and then delay transmission of the DSC call for 
a specified wait time. Distress DSC calls (except for alerts), urgency, safety, routine and test DSC 
calls should wait one, two, three, and four “fixed” units of time plus a random addition described 
below, respectively, before attempting to transmit. Transmission occurs if and only if the channel is 
still free after this wait time has elapsed, otherwise the process is repeated. The fixed “unit” of time 
should be 100 ms on MF and HF and 50 ms on VHF. The randomly generated component should be 
some positive integer with resolution in milliseconds between zero and the fixed interval. On MF/HF 
the channel is considered free if the receiver hardware or DSP software is unable to recognize the 
DSC tones.  
