 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
21 
 
Automatic switching to a subsequent communications channel on receipt of a DSC call might in some 
cases disrupt important ongoing communications. Where such capability exists, a means for disabling 
that function should therefore be provided for all calls other than individual station calls of category 
distress or urgency. The DSC equipment should provide visual indication that the automatic 
switching function is disabled. 
12.6 
Data interface 
DSC equipment should be provided with facilities for exchange of data from shipborne navigational 
equipment or systems, or other shipborne equipment as necessary in accordance with IEC 61162 
series for purposes including automatic position updating.  
12.7 
Position updating 
DSC equipment should accept valid IEC 61162 position information including the time at which 
the position was determined, from an external source utilizing the data interface described in § 12.6, 
for automatic update of own ship’s DSC position. 
The DSC Class D and E Equipment should, and the DSC Class A equipment may also be provided 
with an integral global navigation satellite system (GNSS) receiver. In which case, the DSC 
equipment should automatically switch to the internal source if the external IEC 61162 position 
information is not valid or not available. Antennas for integral GNSS receiver should be mounted 
externally, such that they are provided with an unobstructed view of the sky. 
If the automatic position update is not available, a displayed and audible reminder to manually update 
the position should occur when a) no position information is provided during start up and b) before 
the position information is 4 hours old. The displayed reminder should remain until position updating 
has been carried out. Any position information not updated for more than 23½ hours should 
automatically be erased. 
Own ship’s DSC position information and the source of that information (external, internal, or 
manually entered) should be displayed on the DSC equipment. 
12.8 
Geographic area entry 
DSC equipment should be provided with means for transforming a geographical area specified by the 
user as a centre point and a range to the corresponding Mercator area call format specified in § 5.3. 
The centre point should default to the ships position information and the range should default to 
500 NM (926 km). The transformation of the entered range and centre-point should result in 
the minimum rectangular area that encompasses the entered data. 
12.9 
Medical transport and neutral ships and aircraft 
The capability of using second telecommands “Ships and aircraft of States not parties to an armed 
conflict” and “Medical Transports” should not be available by default but only after changing relevant 
parameters in the setup menu. 
12.10 
Group calls (Ships having common interest)/individual call  
When the MMSI in the menu for an individual call starts with “0” followed by the three digits of 
an MID the format specifier for individual call 120 should/may change to a group call specifier 114 
automatically, as well as the settings of the call. 
