 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
19 
 
which should be rapidly self-closing when unattended. The initiation of a distress alert should at least 
require two independent actions. 
11.3 
Calls with format specifier “distress” or category of call “distress”, “urgency” and “safety” 
should be initiated manually only. This applies also for ships equipped for automatic DSC operation. 
For automatic repetition of distress alerts see Recommendation ITU-R M.541. 
11.4 
Immediately following a distress alert a DSC expansion message giving enhanced position 
resolution according to Recommendation ITU-R M.821 should be transmitted in the following 
manner. 
For a single frequency distress alert attempt the expansion message should be transmitted 
immediately after the last of five consecutive distress alerts. 
For a multi-frequency distress alert attempt the expansion message should be transmitted immediately 
after each distress alert. 
The resending of the distress alert attempt should comply to § 3.2.4. 
12 
Shipborne human machine interface  
12.1 
Shipborne audible digital selective calling alarm and audible indication 
12.1.1 Shipborne DSC alarms should start softly and increase in volume if not silenced by the 
operator. This will give the operator the opportunity to confirm the reception of the alarm without 
interrupting the ship’s current communications by silencing the alarm sound DSC calls received 
which are not of the category of call distress and urgency should sound an audible indication 
(see § 2.3) to inform the operator of the reception. 
12.1.2 Category of distress calls, which consists out of distress alert, distress acknowledgement, 
distress alert relay and the distress alert relay acknowledgement. 
– 
The DSC distress alert, and distress alert relay should have an alarm consisting of a repetition 
of the 2 200 Hz tone for 250 ms followed by a 1 300 Hz tone for 250 ms (two-tone alarm). 
– 
DSC distress alert acknowledgement and DSC distress alert relay acknowledgement should 
initiate an alarm consisting of a repetition of the 2 200 Hz tone for 500 ms followed by a 
1 300 Hz tone for 500 ms (two-tone acknowledgement alarm). 
These alarms occurs at the initiation of the received distress DSC automated procedure. The 
characteristics of this alarm should not be able to be altered. 
12.1.3  Category of urgency calls which consists out of urgency and urgency acknowledgement. 
– 
The DSC urgency alarm consisting of a repetition of the 2 200 Hz tone for 250 ms followed 
by 250 ms period of silence. 
– 
The DSC urgency acknowledgement alarm consisting of a repetition of the 2 200 Hz tone for 
500 ms followed by a 500 ms period of silence. 
These alarms occur at the initiation of the received non-distress DSC automated procedure when the 
category of call of the initiating DSC message is “urgency”. The characteristics of this alarm should 
not be able to be altered. 
12.1.4 Normally only the first occurrence of a received DSC Distress as well as DSC Urgency calls. 
The display should be updated in accordance with the actual reported position, but this change of 
information should not initiate a repetition of the original alert. 
12.1.5  All received DSC calls that do not sound a DSC distress or DSC urgency alarm as specified 
in A4-3.1.1 should sound a brief, audible indication (see § 2.3) to inform the operator of the reception. 
