 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
63 
 
Distress alert acknowledgements and distress alert relay acknowledgements should require no data 
entry by the operator except on HF where the frequency of the DSC call may be selected. 
Distress alert relays should only allow the entry of the addressing mode (format) and destination 
address and on HF, the mode of subsequent communication and the frequency of the DSC call. 
On HF the automated procedure should indicate those frequencies on which DSC calls pertinent to 
the automated procedure have been received as the preferred choices, however the operator should 
be allowed to choose any of the six distress frequencies. 
3.2.3.5 
Tuning of the radio after acknowledgment on HF 
The automated tuning should cease upon reception or sending of a distress alert acknowledgement or 
a distress alert relay acknowledgment addressed to multiple stations. However, the operator should 
be provided with sufficient information to manually tune to the working frequencies of the most 
recently received DSC message. 
3.2.3.6 
Handling individually addressed distress alert relays 
The sending or receiving of individually addressed distress alert relays should initiate their own 
automated procedure separate from the automated procedure that may be handling distress DSC 
messages concerning the same distress event. In the case of an event triggered by MOB devices then 
multiple alerts from different MOB devices should be handled as one event and within the same 
automated procedure. 
The option to send a distress alert acknowledgement should never be available during this automated 
procedure. 
3.2.3.7 
Handling group addressed distress alert relays 
In the case of an event triggered by MOB devices then multiple alerts from different MOB devices 
should be handled as one event and within the same automated procedure. 
3.2.3.8 
Handling digital selective calling messages with critical errors 
If the subsequent communication parameter of the distress information is received in error, 
radiotelephone should be assumed and an indication that the parameter was received in error should 
be made known to the operator. 
3.2.3.9 
Handling the self-addressed distress alert acknowledgement  
If the MMSI of the sender of a distress alert acknowledgement is the same as the MMSI of the vessel 
in distress, the automated procedure should recognize the call as an attempt to cancel the distress alert 
and inform the operator accordingly. 
3.2.3.10 Extended digital selective calling sentences  
The automated procedure should be able to successfully receive and decode single frequency alert 
attempts that have extended sentence information at the end of some or all of the individual alerts. 
3.2.3.11 MF/HF only scanning for distress digital selective calling messages 
The received distress automated procedure should scan all six distress DSC channels if not already 
doing so. 
