 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
15 
 
8.2.3 
Message 2 
Message 2 is the “distress coordinates” message, consisting of ten digits indicating the location of the 
vessel in distress, coded on the principles described in Table A1-2, in pairs starting from the first and 
second digits (see Note 1 to § 5.3): 
– 
The first digit indicates the quadrant in which the incident has occurred, as follows: 
– 
quadrant NE is indicated by the digit “0”, 
– 
quadrant NW is indicated by the digit “1”, 
– 
quadrant SE is indicated by the digit “2”, 
– 
quadrant SW is indicated by the digit “3”. 
– 
The next four figures indicate the latitude in degrees and minutes (the first two digits indicate 
the degrees and the last two digits indicate the minutes of the latitude). 
– 
The next five figures indicate the longitude in degrees and minutes (the first three digits 
indicate the degrees and the last two digits indicate the minutes of the longitude). 
If “distress coordinates” cannot be included, or if the position information has not been updated 
for 23½ h, the 10 digits following the “nature of distress” should be automatically transmitted as the 
digit 9 repeated 10 times. 
8.2.4 
Message 3 
Message 3 is the time indication (UTC) when the coordinates were valid consisting of four digits 
coded on the principles described in Table A1-2, in pairs starting from the first and second digits. 
– 
The first two digits indicate the time in hours. 
– 
The third and fourth digits indicate the part of the hours in minutes. 
– 
If the time cannot be included the four time indicating digits should be transmitted 
automatically as “8 8 8 8”. 
8.2.5 
Message 4 
Message 4 is a single character to indicate the type of communication (radiotelephone) which is 
preferred by the station in distress for subsequent exchange of distress traffic. This character is coded 
as shown in Table A1-3 first telecommand. 
8.3 
Other types of calls  
For other types of calls (see Table A1-4.5 through A1-4.11 and Figs 3 and 4) messages are included 
in the following order: 
8.3.1 
Message 1 
Message 1 is the “telecommand” information and consists of two characters (first and second 
telecommand) coded as shown in Table A1-3: 
– 
if no information additional to that conveyed by the first telecommand character is required, 
then the second telecommand signal should be symbol No. 126 (no information) 
(see Table A1-3); 
– 
if no telecommand information is used, symbol No. 126 is transmitted twice; 
– 
if the telecommand 1 is “F3E/G3E duplex TP” (symbol 101) in a request, which can be 
complied with, the telecommand 1 “F3E/G3E all modes TP” (symbol 100) should be used in 
the acknowledgement; 
