20 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
12.1.6 For HF and MF distress calls, the DSC distress alarms should activate only when a call of 
category of distress is received and the reported position of distress is within 500 NM (926 km) of 
the receiving vessel’s position, or if the distress position is in the polar areas (latitude greater than 
70 N or 70 S). The alarm should also activate when the call is received and the distance between 
the vessel in distress and the receiving vessel cannot be determined.  
12.1.7 For geographic area calls, the DSC distress as well as DSC urgency alarms appropriate to the 
category of call it should activate when the receiving station’s position is within the area specified by 
the call or the receiving station’s position is not known.  
12.1.8 The DSC distress alarm should not be activated where duplicate distress alert relay calls are 
received within one hour. A duplicate distress alert relay call is one having format specifier all ships 
or geographic area that contains identical message information, as defined in § 8.1 and an identical 
distress maritime mobile service identity (MMSI). 
12.2 
Inactivity timer 
During normal operation, the equipment should include an inactivity timer to return the DSC system 
display to default or standby mode if the operator is in a menu where DSC call reception is disabled 
and does not make any selections or changes for 10 min. 
12.3 
Display 
The presentation of information on the display should support readability from typical user positions 
when operating the equipment under all ambient light conditions and operational requirements likely 
to be experienced on the bridge of a ship1.  
It should have the means to display, in plain language, the information contained in the received call. 
For Class A DSC equipment, the display should have a minimum of 160 characters in two or more 
lines. 
12.4 
Maritime mobile service identity 
DSC equipment should not transmit any DSC call until own ship’s MMSI allocated to the ship by the 
relevant administration has been configured and stored in the DSC equipment. Once stored, it should 
only be possible for an authorised user to change the MMSI with cooperation from the manufacturer 
or the authorized entity. 
The DSC equipment should display own ship’s MMSI on start-up unless the MMSI has not been 
configured. If the MMSI has not been configured, the equipment will display a warning that the unit 
will not transmit any DSC calls until own ship’s MMSI is entered. The equipment should stay in this 
state until the operator confirms he has read the display and input own ship’s MMSI. 
The MMSI should be readily displayed on the human machine interface when the DSC equipment 
is on. 
12.5 
Automatic channel switching function on VHF 
Automatic switching to a subsequent communications channel on receipt of a DSC call may be 
implemented on VHF equipment. Prior to an automatic switch to the proposed frequency or channel, 
the user should accept the change, which should be carried out after the acknowledgement. 
 
1  See IMO MSC. 191(79) for further details. 
