 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
53 
 
They are:  
– 
the receiving of distress DSC calls,  
– 
the receiving of non-distress DSC calls,  
– 
the sending of distress DSC alert attempts  
– 
and the sending of non-distress DSC calls.  
A fifth procedure is designed to handle:  
– 
non-DSC communication events. 
These automated procedures are called: 
– 
Received distress automated procedure 
– 
Sending distress automated procedure 
– 
Received non-distress automated procedure (including ACS) 
– 
Sending non-distress automated procedure (including ACS) 
– 
Communications automated procedure. 
2.2 
default: a value selected or an action taken by the equipment software in the absence of any 
operator input. 
2.3 
DROBOSE: distress alert relay on behalf of someone else. 
2.4 
engaged: the term used to indicate that the equipment is busy handling an automated 
procedure. 
2.5 
factory default: a default value that is set by the manufacturer such that the field or behaviour 
is defined prior to any operator intervention. 
2.6 
standby: the term used to indicate that the equipment is not handling an automated 
procedure, either active or on hold, but is able to receive DSC messages. 
2.7 
top level: top level means that items, buttons, or functions are present and visible without 
requiring any action by the operator (such as scrolling, opening up menus, or removing any obscuring 
covers, etc.). 
3 
Controls 
3.1 
Dedicated distress button to initiate the sending of the distress alert attempt. This button 
should have at least two independent actions. Lifting of the protective lid is considered the first action. 
Pressing the distress button is considered as the second independent action. This button should be red 
in colour and marked “DISTRESS”. Where a non-transparent protective lid or cover is used, it should 
also be marked “DISTRESS”. The cover should be protected against inadvertent operation with a 
spring loaded lid or cover permanently attached to the equipment by e.g. hinges. It should not be 
necessary for the user to remove seals or to break the lid or cover in order to operate the distress 
button. This button should be used only for this purpose and it should be able to perform this function 
at all times. Use of the button without any previous operator actions to compose the alert should 
initiate the default distress alert attempt. The “default distress alert attempt” consists of 
“undesignated” for the nature of distress, radiotelephony for the communication mode, and on HF the 
transmission of the attempt uses the multi-frequency method including all six bands. 
The distress button should have priority over all DSC procedures. 
3.2 
Top level menu while the equipment is in standby should provide the following controls, 
buttons or functions should be visible at the top level while the equipment is in standby: 
