62 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
The operator should be able to resend a duplicate of the first acknowledgement in automated 
procedures that have subsequent communications. 
3.2.2 
Tasks of automated procedures initiated by sending a non-distress digital selective 
calling call 
3.2.2.1 
Display of elapsed time 
The elapsed time since sending the initial DSC call should be displayed or after the automated 
procedure has received a requested acknowledgment, the elapsed time since acknowledgement should 
be displayed. Receiving repeat acknowledgments should not affect the time display. 
3.2.2.2 
Resending the initial digital selective calling call 
If no acknowledgement is requested the option to resend the initial DSC call should remain available 
until the procedure is terminated. 
If an acknowledgement is requested the option to resend the initial DSC call should remain available 
until the acknowledgment has been received. 
3.2.2.3 
Handling the reception of a delayed acknowledgement 
If an acknowledgement appropriate to this automated procedure is received but the operator has 
terminated the automated procedure prematurely, the appropriate automated procedure should be 
reconstructed based on the acknowledgement and the operator informed of the situation. 
3.2.3 
Tasks of automated procedures initiated by receiving a distress digital selective calling 
call or sending a distress alert relay on behalf of someone else 
3.2.3.1 
Display of elapsed time 
The elapsed time since receiving the initial DSC call should be displayed or after the automated 
procedure has been acknowledged, the elapsed time since acknowledgement should be displayed. 
Receiving repeat acknowledgments should not affect the time display. 
3.2.3.2 
Determining operator options 
On HF the operator should have the option to set the general receiver and transmitter to any one of 
the six distress frequencies of subsequent communication. 
The option to send a distress alert relay should always be available until the automated procedure is 
terminated. 
3.2.3.3 
Distress alert acknowledgments and distress alert relay acknowledgement options 
These options should not be made available until a DSC call has been received that can respond to 
the acknowledgement. 
These options should be available immediately after reception of the appropriate DSC calls and not 
wait until certain conditions for their use, such as time limits, are fulfilled. 
Once these options are available, they should remain available until the automated procedure is 
terminated. 
3.2.3.4 
Digital selective calling call composition 
The automated procedure should automatically compose distress alert relays, distress alert 
acknowledgments and distress alert relay acknowledgments based upon the received DSC calls. 
The distress information should be taken from the distress DSC call which has the latest UTC time 
stamp. 
