58 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
2.6 
default: a value selected or an action taken by the equipment software in the absence of any 
operator input. 
2.7 
distress digital selective calling message: A DSC message or acknowledgement containing 
the distress information. 
2.8 
distress event: a unique distress situation identified by two (VHF) or three (MF/HF) 
parameters of the distress information; the MMSI of the vessel in distress and the nature of distress 
and on MF/HF the mode of subsequent communication. If a MOB device triggered the distress event 
then multiple distress alerts from different MOB devices should be handled as one event and within 
the same automated procedure. 
2.9 
distress information: the symbols within a DSC call describing a distress situation 
consisting of the MMSI of the vessel in distress, the nature of distress, the position of the vessel in 
distress, the UTC time of that position, and the mode of subsequent communication. 
2.10 
DROBOSE: distress alert relay on behalf of someone else. 
2.11 
DX/RX: a notation used to describe the time diversity structure of DSC calls (see Fig. A1-1). 
One has to be careful not to confuse the “RX” notation when used to indicate the symbol position in 
the DSC call structure (as in § 4.1 of Annex 1) with its use to indicate reception (as in § 8.3.2 of 
Annex 1). 
2.12 
engaged: the term used to indicate that the equipment is busy handling an automated 
procedure. 
2.13 
factory default: A default value that is set by the manufacturer such that the field or 
behaviour is defined prior to any operator intervention. 
2.14 
general receiver: this unit is the receiver part of the transceiver used for the reception of all 
subsequent communications and on HF the reception of non-distress DSC acknowledgements. It is 
important to distinguish this unit from the watch receiver (see below). 
2.15 
identical: a set of information characters is considered identical to another set of information 
characters if all pairs of corresponding information characters are equal or, if a pair of corresponding 
information characters is not equal, one of the pair is in error. 
2.16 
information characters: the set of symbols in the DSC call that contain the items of interest 
for the recipient and is used to compute the ECC symbol that terminates the message. These symbols 
are repeated in the DX/RX time diversity pattern. 
2.17 
initial digital selective calling message: the DSC message that starts an automated 
procedure. 
2.18 
non-distress digital selective calling message: DSC messages and acknowledgments that 
do not contain the distress information. 
2.19 
objective: when in reference to a DSC message or automated procedure it is the goal or intent 
of the item; usually this goal or intent is to establish subsequent communications or request 
information. 
2.20 
on hold: the term used to describe an automated procedure which does not have access to the 
transmitter and general receiver and therefore cannot engage in subsequent communications and is 
only able to receive DSC messages on the watch receiver. 
2.21 
operator options: are any choices the operator can make while the automated procedure is 
engaged. 
2.22 
parallel event handling: the background process of handling a received DSC message that 
is not pertinent to the active automated procedure. 
