 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
23 
 
DSC calls received which are not of the category of call distress and urgency should sound an audible 
indication (see § 2.3) to inform the operator of the reception. 
13.2 
Inactivity timer 
During normal operation, the handheld equipment should include an inactivity timer to return the 
DSC system display to default or standby mode if the operator is in a menu where DSC call reception 
is disabled and does not make any selections or changes for a number of minutes. The range of 
minutes should be adjustable from 1 to 10 in the configuration of the handheld VHF. 
13.3 
Display 
The presentation of information on the display of the handheld VHF should support readability from 
typical user positions under all ambient light conditions and operational requirements2. It should have 
the means to display, in plain language, the information contained in the received call. 
13.4 
Maritime mobile service identity/maritime identity 
Handheld DSC equipment should not transmit any DSC call until the MMSI or maritime identity 
allocated to the handheld VHF by the relevant administration has been configured and stored in 
the DSC equipment. Once stored, it should not be possible for the user to reprogram the identifier 
without cooperation from the manufacturer or authorised entity. 
The DSC equipment should display the identifier on start-up unless an identifier has not been 
configured. If the identifier has not been configured, the equipment will display a warning that the unit 
will not transmit any DSC calls until an identifier is entered. The equipment should stay in this state 
until the operator confirms he has read the display and input an identifier. 
The identifier should be displayed in standby mode and available to be displayed in the menu system 
of the handheld VHF. 
13.5 
Automatic channel switching 
Automatic switching to a subsequent communications channel on receipt of a DSC call may be 
implemented on VHF equipment. Prior to an automatic switch to the proposed frequency or channel, 
the user should accept the change, which should be carried out after the acknowledgement. 
Automatic switching to a subsequent communications channel on receipt of a DSC call might in some 
cases disrupt important ongoing communications. Where such capability exists, a means for disabling 
that function should therefore be provided for all calls. 
The handheld VHF should revert to automatic channel switching after a power off and power ON 
sequence has been carried out. 
14 
Handheld VHF digital selective calling equipment with electronic position fixing 
systems (Class H) 
The DSC equipment must provide an internal GNSS receiver and use those capabilities.  
 
2  See IMO MSC. 191(79) for further details. 
