24 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
15 
Position request operation for Class D, Class E and Class H 
The Position Request Acknowledgement function should be capable of being deactivated by the user 
in order to ensure privacy. However, after transmission of a distress alert, the position request 
acknowledgment of that particular radio should be activated automatically and then stay active until 
reset by the user. The Position Request Acknowledgement should be sent automatically by the 
equipment if requested. This would ensure that search and rescue entities are able to request the 
position of the vessel in distress even after a Distress Acknowledgement has been received by the 
equipment.  
16 
Man overboard devices using VHF digital selective calling (Class M) 
Man overboard (MOB) devices using VHF digital selective calling (Class M) are Group A 
autonomous maritime radio devices. These devices incorporate DSC as well as AIS functionality. 
The functionalities of the operational procedures of the devices are described in Recommendation 
ITU-R M.2135. The related DSC functionality is described in the following sections. 
16.1 
Open and closed loop operation 
MOB devices using VHF DSC is capable of operating as an open loop/all station device (see § 16.4) 
or as a closed loop/designated station device (see § 16.5) only, as described in this Recommendation.  
16.2 
Distress self-cancel operation 
MOB devices using VHF digital selective calling (Class M) should be capable of transmitting a 
distress self-cancel message, as described in § 8.6 and Table A1-4.2. 
16.3 
Action on receipt of acknowledgment messages 
If after activation the MOB device receives a DSC distress alert acknowledgement message, 
formatted in accordance with Table A1-4.2, or a DSC distress alert relay acknowledgment message, 
formatted in accordance with Table A1-4.4 as response to the related alerting, the DSC transmitter 
shall be switched off and provide an indication of the reception of the acknowledgment message. 
16.4 
Open loop man overboard devices  
Calls from and to open loop MOB devices using VHF DSC are defined in Tables A1-4.1 and A1-4.2. 
On initial activation, the open loop MOB device transmits a DSC call formatted as a distress alert as 
specified in Table A1-4.1. The appropriate acknowledgement is in accordance with Table A1-4.2. 
The nature of distress field shall be set to symbol 110 (man overboard) and the subsequent 
communications field set to symbol 126 (no information). The position (message 2) and time 
(message 3) fields in the initial DSC message is filled by the digits 9 and 8 respectively, in accordance 
with §§ 8.2.3 and 8.2.4. In subsequent messages these fields should be filled with appropriate data. 
