18 
Rec.  ITU-R  M.493-16 
 
8.6 
Distress self-cancel operation 
Distress acknowledgments where the transmitting ID and ship in distress ID are the same, 
the message should be interpreted as a self-cancel operation. This should be displayed on all receiving 
stations. 
9 
End of sequence 
The “end of sequence” (EOS) character is transmitted three times in the DX position and once in the 
RX position (see Fig. A1-1b)). It is one of the three unique characters corresponding to 
symbol Nos. 117, 122 and 127 as follows: 
– 
symbol No. 117 if the call requires acknowledgement (Acknowledge RQ), used for 
individual and automatic calls only; 
– 
symbol No. 122 if the sequence is an answer to a call that requires acknowledgement 
(Acknowledge BQ), used for individual and automatic calls and all distress alert relay 
acknowledgements; 
– 
symbol No. 127 for all other calls. 
10 
Error-check character 
10.1 
The error-check character (ECC) is the final character transmitted and it serves to check the 
entire sequence for the presence of errors which are undetected by the ten-unit error-detecting code 
and the time diversity employed. 
10.2 
The seven information bits of the ECC shall be equal to the least significant bit of 
the modulo-2 sums of the corresponding bits of all information characters (i.e. even vertical parity). 
The format specifier and the EOS characters are considered to be information characters. The phasing 
characters and the retransmission (RX) characters shall not be considered to be information 
characters. Only one format specifier character and one EOS character should be used in constructing 
the ECC. The ECC shall also be sent in the DX and RX positions. 
10.3 
Automatic acknowledgement transmissions should not start unless the ECC is received and 
decoded correctly. A received ECC which does not match that calculated from the received 
information characters may be ignored if this was due to an error detected in the ten-unit 
error-detecting code of the information characters which was correctable by use of the time diversity 
code. 
10.4 
The receiver decoder should provide maximum utilization of the received signal, including 
use of the error-check character. 
11 
Distress alert attempt 
11.1 
Distress alerts may be transmitted as a single frequency or a multi-frequency call attempt 
preceded by a dot pattern. MF/HF equipment should be capable of using both single and multi-
frequency call attempts. Where a distress alert attempt contains more than one consecutive distress 
alert on the same frequency (see Recommendation ITU-R M.541), these consecutive alerts should be 
transmitted with no gap between the end of one call and the start of the dot pattern of the following 
call to enable bit synchronization to be maintained (see Fig. 1c)). Multi-frequency call attempts 
should always include at least the MF and HF 8 MHz band DSC distress and safety frequencies. 
11.2 
A distress alert should be activated only by means of a dedicated distress button which should 
be clearly identified and be protected against inadvertent operation. For a fixed station the protection 
should be a spring loaded lid or cover. For a handheld VHF the protection should be a cover or a lid 
